wolfram donat senior python engineerwolframdonat @ gmail. com • ( 907 ) 229 - 3775 http : / / www. linkedin. com / in / wolframdonat • palmdale, ca, 93551 dynamic and technically advanced professional offering extensive experience in designing, developing, implementing, and maintaining robust hardware applications, software solutions, and full technical systems as per customer requirements. well - versed in leading technical and greenfield projects from planning to successful completion within stringent timelines and budgetary constraints. stellar track record of designing and creating computer systems for a brand - new orbital welding machine, a global electronic monitoring ( em ) system for commercial fisheries, and a fleet of semi - autonomous boats. excel at delivering exceptional leadership support and guiding development teams while producing software, applications, and scalable web services. adept at identifying and resolving technical issues incomputer systems to improve operational efficiency. instrumental in managing all stages and all areas of software development as well as architecture design, performance evaluation, code review, and internal tool management. possess strong understanding of leading programming languages and technologies such as python. proven success in optimizing hardware and software platforms by leveraging python, c, and c + +. articulate communicator with exceptional problem - solving, analytical, and team management skills. fluent in ml, ai ( llms ), and iot functionality. technical proficiencies python | c | c + + | flask | firmware | linux | bash | git | rest career experience phykos, pbc, remote 2022 – 2023 software developer – consultant developed, evaluated, and improved codebase for partially autonomous ocean - going ships, including communications via satellite modem, motor control, sensor input and reaction, and gps tracking.collaborated with cross - functional technical teams and senior leadership to discuss hardware choices and all communication protocol options. worked on design and development of algorithm supporting data analytics, logging, and anomaly detection. ●selected appropriate communication protocols and particular hardware such as sensors and sbcs. ●developed front - end dashboard and command ui to enable seamless communication with remote vessels. arc machines, inc., chatsworth, ca 2018 – present software architect manage technology teams designing and developing new automated orbital welding power supplies, fusion welders and smart pipe weld heads. coordinate with esab's global technology development teams and oversee end - to - end operations regarding ami's adoption of new technologies. engage with multiple engineering disciplines and team members to identify and resolve errors in company products.leverage linux, python, and microcontrollers to create effective custom solutions as per customer page 1 | 2requirements. perform various operations regarding design and development of algorithms, gui designs, system integrations, and process automation. ●led cross - functional technological team that created and marketed the state - of - the - art computerized orbital welding power supply known as the m317. ●utilized knowledge of data analytics, python, linux, arm, machine learning, and computer vision while developing effective software solutions for clients. ●implemented new technologies, including remote solutions, iot cloud management, and computer vision while managing various technical projects. ●increased overall efficiency, reduced welding defects, and enhanced user adoption by identifying and incorporating state - of - the - art technology and interfacing used in the new m317. aerospace corporation, el segundo, ca 2015 – 2018 computer systems research engineerled various software and hardware research projects for several clients, including the nro, us air force, and some private contractors. examined ways to employ inertial navigation and other accessible sensor networks to self - locate in gps - denied areas. created hardware platform for algorithm and system testing by leveraging microcontrollers, accelerometers, and sbcs. investigated uav autonomy using python, opencv, and other open - source / cross - platform technologies, including object tracking and autopilot integration. ●tested real - time vehicle and license plate recognition using raspberry pis and image processing on iot edge nodes. ●converted radiation - hardened dsp image processing algorithms from proprietary languages into c and transferred into arm - based computers. saltwater inc., anchorage, ak 2014 – 2015 systems engineer leveraged various hardware and software such as ip cameras, raspberry pi, sensors, gps modules, andembedded linux machines to create robust solutions for clients. created standalone autonomous data and sensor logging, computer vision, and video solutions. monitored and analyzed catch and bycatch measurements for commercial fishing vessels. ●planned, programmed, and constructed a prototype system within six months, subsequently used in the nmfs east coast tuna project ( then one of the biggest electronic monitoring programs across the globe ). additional experience software developer – consultant, x - biomedical, remote analyst / web developer – pangomedia, anchorage, ak education bachelor of science ( b. s. ) computer engineering university of alaska, anchorage, ak page 2 | 2My full name is Wolfram Donat
My email address is wolframdonat@gmail.com
My phone number is (907)229-3775
I prefer not to discuss salary at this time
